# Acalanes-Attendance
Automatic attendance taker for Acalanes Union High School District. Flask app that compares participant data from Zoom API to roster in postgreSQL database and outputs names of tardy or absent students to website that can be found [here](https://acalanesattendance.herokuapp.com/). Currently hosted on a free Heroku server.

# Initial Idea
About two weeks into online learning, my Cohort academy teacher off-handily mentioned how tedious attendance-taking was on Zoom. That comment stuck with me and sparked the idea of using Zoom's Application Programming Interface (API) to get the names of everyone in the Zoom meeting and compare that participant list to the student roster found on Aeries (our school's data system). So, I stayed after class to pitch the idea to my teacher. Luckily, he turned out to be a computer science teacher who’s enthusiasm and advice gave me the initial confidence to pursue this idea even though I had no prior experience with web development. 

# Problem #1
I spent the next couple of weeks reading the Zoom and Aeries documentation and learning how to use their APIs. However, I soon realized that my initial plan to simply upload the Zoom attendance data straight to Aeries wasn’t possible because I didn’t have developer permissions with only a student account. Instead of directly querying the API for a list of students, I had to create a web hook that would “listen in” to all the POST requests that Zoom sends every time someone enters or leaves the meeting. For every student, the app would store the meeting ID of the class they were currently in, the teacher of that class, and the time that they joined in order to determine whether they were on time (according to the custom late policy set by each teacher). Nevertheless, this workaround came with its own limitations. At the start of every class, the web server would be bombarded with thousands of POST requests as teachers started admitting students into their meetings. Working with the limited computing power of a free Heroku server, I had to optimize my code to minimize the amount of processing time to keep up with all the requests. Instead, the compute-intensive task of comparing the participant list to the class roster in quadratic time to figure out 
